All right.
Second final lesson of ideation.
We've got competitive analysis.
Why is competitive analysis important?
Well, as we know from our unit on case studies,
or rather lesson on case studies, I should say,
it's important to understand the space that you're working in.
So the case studies that I provided earlier are to provide a general holistic
representation
of this domain of consumer apps.
Now, when it comes to competitive analysis,
if you have begun the process of ideation, seeking to solve your problems
and scrolling social media, once your ideas become slightly more fully formed,
it's very important to look at what other apps or what similar products in the
space are doing.
Honestly, I almost considered including this in the unit on ideation.
The reason that I didn't is the majority of ideas that I have ever come up with
that have been successful
were based on idea/problem first, and then we compare what already exists in
the space,
rather than looking at products that exist and then choosing the app to build.
To be honest, I actually have employed that strategy a number of times,
and every single time it has failed.
On the flip side, I do know other people that use that strategy, and it works.
And it also borders on being a copycat, right?
There's one way which is to look at apps that exist in the space,
and to use that to build an adjacent product, which I think that there's
nothing wrong with.
And then you look at other apps in the space and you just build a complete copy
cat,
and you don't innovate at all.
And I find that to be very uninspiring.
All right.
So I'm actually going to switch these around.
We're going to do app store rankings plus sensor tower, and I'll explain why in
a moment.
But let's get right into it.
Okay, so during this lesson, I'm going to just kind of scroll through without a
very specific idea in mind that I'm looking to analyze the competitors for it,
but you can employ really any sort of strategy here.
I usually do this on my phone, but I'm on the computer, so we'll do it here
today.
So if you search up app store, iOS app store charts, you'll come somewhere like
, you'll get somewhere like here, I think.
Yeah, so I just searched up quitter.
I pressed this 68 in health and fitness.
And then I changed to lifestyle to start the first app I built, Rizzed GPT was
in lifestyle, but you can really go through any category, but we'll start here
arbitrarily.
Okay, so when I come here, the big things that I'm looking for are new products
.
Now, the reason that that's important is as I explained in case studies, right,
we're not looking to try to copy Pinterest or hinge or, you know, Zilla, like
these are all multi multi billion dollar companies that received a ton of
funding and took years and years to find any level of success.
T dating advice is interesting to me because T, I believe the company may have
received some funding, but it kind of came out of nowhere, right? It's a very
new product.
Keep scrolling through deep search AI. I think this is similar.
Now, if when you want to see how old one of these products is, you just get a
version history, scroll down. So deep search AI came out in March of 2025.
All right, so we'll start with this product as an example. Let's see if they do
in app purchases. Yeah, they do. All right, now let's take a look.
So we'll go, you search up sensor tower top charts on Google.
The reason I do this is if you just go to sensor tower.com.
So actually, like you don't really know where to go. So what I do is I search
up sensor tower top charts.
Now, guys, like I don't even have an account. I don't even pay for sensor tower
.
So here we'll see that we see the little icons here. This is Android. This is
iOS. Deep search AI came out in March and is doing over $300,000 a month post
Apple tax.
Now, these numbers aren't perfect, but they're in my experience very, very
accurate.
See if they build any other apps. They build a phone cleaner product.
Interesting. Cool, cool.
So this product seems pretty basic. You enter someone's name gives you all the
links. It's actually very clear value add.
I think that most current LLMs will not, will not actually tell you about
people.
So one of the key learnings here is like if there's too much risk liability or
maybe even political backlash that companies like OpenAI and Thoropic, XAI
would receive for a feature here being getting information on real life people,
then maybe there's an opportunity to build it yourself. Okay, let's keep going.
Here we got NGL, which we're all familiar with. I wonder what this is.
This is like a find a weed app. That's funny. So this is always interesting
seeing an app that is number 45 in lifestyle, but as 38 ratings, meaning it's
either extremely new or it just went viral.
So this being a little bit of both came out a number months ago, probably just
had its first viral moment.
Astra, one of our case studies. Okay, we'll keep going pretty quickly. Oh,
candle. This is pretty interesting. It's like playing games for couples.
Definitely viral domain. We got a UMAX copycat right here. Love to see it.
Cool. All right, let's move forward. Let's go to health and fitness.
Well, we got Cal AI beating out my fitness pal. It's fucking sick to see we
just did a Mr. Beast promo. So that's exciting.
These apps are super interesting. This sort of like brain training game apps.
I think I'll provide a concrete example here within fitness. Okay, so AI
calorie tracking would be a terrible space to build in right now on the unless
you have some like clear distribution edge on the basis of the fact that they
're just like
their thousands and thousands of products that you're competing with. However,
one space that I think actually has a lot of opportunity is sort of weight,
weightlifting planning. Most of the apps aren't very good.
So what I would do is I would find apps like this. Apps that help you plan your
workout.
You go through find them and then so okay, let's say, let's say this one.
First step in my eyes is like find comparables and then find out how much they
're making. Like, are they making a lot? Do they get a lot of downloads?
So strong workout tracker, which is obviously very generic product, is making
over $500,000 a month after Apple's tax on just $200,000 downloads, which
indicates relatively high user intent.
Okay, let's go back.
And to be honest, you can apply this to pretty much any domain. Like any idea
that you have, go find the products, toss them in, see how much they're making.
So I mentioned impulse, right? These apps are insane.
At face value, it's a freemium app and it just teaches you, you know, you're
literally just playing like these little brain games, but they make over $3
million a month after Apple's tax, which is bananas.
To put that into perspective, Cal AI also makes $3 million. They've got the
number. Well, actually, after Apple tax, it's under $3 million. So that's why
they would round down to two.
But it's a great product. That was a little self brag there. It's meant to be a
little bit ironic. The joke came across well.
Okay, what are some other interesting domains productivity? You've sometimes
find some some very, yeah, okay, here we've got one focused friend Hank green.
I guess he is produced some little like app to help people stay focused.
Speechify awesome app, founded by Cliff Weitzman. Good friend.
I'm not seeing too much interesting here right now. We do see all of the AI
note taking apps. So.
As an example here, we mentioned minutes as a case study minutes makes $300,000
a month on just 20,000 downloads, which is insane. Absolutely bananas.
The AI note taking apps when you market it to to high intent students as well
as professionals, you can make a lot of money per download.
Let's go business now. Let's see. Look. Not too much is interesting. So once
again, as I mentioned earlier, like when I'm taking a look here, what I'm
seeing is indeed.
Complex product. You need both both applicants and and companies looking to
hire Microsoft teams. It's like, okay, it's Microsoft zoom. It's zoom, right
video chat. I'm not going to encourage people to build that LinkedIn
professional networking site door dash.
So most of these products, I'm taking a look at them and I'm like, all right,
these are built by major corporations and are very complex products, which is
why I kind of skipped through them.
And I'm like, you know what, this, there's not much for me to teach on most of
this. This scanner app. This is actually something that you could theoretically
build, right?
And maybe not as viral, not as not really in line with what with this sort of
ethos of the majority of products and consumer apps that that I provided in the
case studies and that are you have any any amount of reasonable chance to make
highly profitable within just a few months.
So, I'm not actually making that much. So they may be either under monetize or
they're pursuing a more freemium route where the strategy is to make a
difference.
And that can increase retention, K factor, and enable them to sort of scale
over time, as opposed to trying to rip right now.
Reference is always a great, great space. You'll see even in reference, you
have like these coin scanners and whatnot. The reason is because reference is
arguably the easiest category in the app sort of climb the ranks.
And so people that are kind of hacking ASO will put their product in reference,
but reference is primarily for, you know, religious slash, I guess, cultural.
So maybe that's also why the coin scanners here never really understood the
reference category all that well.
Yeah, cool. Okay.
I think that's pretty much it from now for this video. In the next module in
design, you'll learn a little bit about what to actually do with these apps
once you identify them going through their flows, taking the screenshots,
pacing and figma.
But, yeah, that that will come next.
Yeah, download the app analyzes onboarding paywall core functionality. Honestly
, you can do that now to some extent.
Just use the app, see what it feels like, and this will help inform your sort
of understanding of the problem that you are solving when you download these
apps that are that are similar to to your product.
And then additionally, something that I guess two other points I didn't touch
on.
I would cross reference the app with its social media presence so you'll learn
more about how to do that in distribution, but you can just search it up on
Instagram, TikTok, try to find its meta ads library, see what the hooks are
that's working, put yourself in the mind of the customer as you use, you know,
the market landscape to
make your idea more fully formed. And then finally, scroll these rankings daily
, just stay up to date.
Sensor Tower also has some interesting data, but you guys can go play around
with that platform. But as you see here, like I can also just scroll the
rankings within Sensor Tower.
Cool. All right. That's it for this video.
I will see you guys in my final lesson of the module of ideation, which will be
finalizing your idea. Peace out, guys.